---
layout: post
title:  "How Sure are You That 538 was Wrong?"
date:   2020-01-05
---
*by Jack Sharples*

Before reading further, ask yourself:

Have you ever felt fear about whether allowing your income to put you in a higher tax bracket would cause you to lose money overall?

In 2016, 538 gave Hillary a 70% chance to win the election. Did Donald Trump's victory prove them wrong?

A bat and a ball cost a combined $1.10. The bat costs $1.00 more than the ball. How much does the ball cost?



*Marginal Tax rate!
-People think that having income in a higher tax bracket means that all of their income is taxed at a higher rate.
https://www.fool.com/taxes/2019/01/11/the-most-misunderstood-thing-about-income-taxes.aspx

-In reality, only the money above the bracket value is taxed at the higher rate.

*Election Prediction Models!*
-People think that the probability of winning is a prediction of the final proportion of votes. 

For example, 
In 2016, 538 gave Hillary a 70% chance of winning and gave trump a 30% chance. When Trump ended up willing the election through the result of razor-thin margins in a few key states, 
-In reality the percentage is the likelihood of winning.
-share example article/quote

~LITERATURE~

The Cognitive reflection test - Tax rate and election models are examples of situations where there is a quick response that is popular and incorrect. Discuss the other CRT examples.


~EXTENSIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS~

An experiment might be designed to test how people respond to marginal tax rate and election prediction models with a scale that gauges how confident people are in their responses. There might also be a timer during participant responses that can give a measure of the connection between response time and accuracy, similar to the other CRT experiments.
